Welcome back everyone.
We're going to continue working on this main users component by starting to build out the views we had
to fill out the forms first because we're going to be using those forms when constructing our views
then once we have a review set up we can begin connecting them to templates.
Let's get started.
All right.
Here we are we're back at our actual text Ed..
Recall that last time we filled out the log in form the registration form and the up that user form
as well as the special picture handler which were going to be using in our views.
So let's go over two views up high and as a reminder this is our users views up-I.
And let's kind of sketch out what we need to do here.
We need to create some views one to actually register a a user and other one to actually log in the
user.
Then we're also going to want you to log out a user to type out log out.
And then we're going to want a view to actually show someone's account.
This is essentially going to refer to the update user forum and then we also want you to show all of
a user's blog posts.
So this will be something like a user's list of blog posts.
All right.
So these are the views we're going to create and we're going to have to actually import quite a bit
in order to make sure this all works out.
So to start with the basic imports from flask will say from flask import and we're going to be using
render a template your for we may want to flash some messages.
We'll go ahead and import that.
We may want to do some redirects after they blog then and then we'll also import request and blueprint
because we're going to want to set users as a blueprint to register it in our in that pie file.
So that's ready to go.
And now we're also going to be using flask loggin for a lot of this functionality.
So we'll say from flask loggin import and we're going to want to be able to log in the user grab the
current user log out a user so log out user and then say log in required
it's actually just typing that.
There we go.
Now we're also going to need to reference our database because remember if we're actually registering
a user will have to connect to the actual database and update it or create it.
So I'll say from puppy company blog import DB.
So that actually is saying go to this in it thought py file come down and grab this application sequel
alchemy object.
So that's that D-B right there.
Then I will say from puppie company blog.
Let's go ahead and import the models.
We'll import the user model as well as the blog post model then we'll say from puppie company blog dot
users forms import registration form the log in form and the update user forms the forms are created
in the last lecture.
And then finally we're going to say from puppy company blog dot users dot picture handler import ad
profile pic.
So this is just saying open up this picture handler that PI file and then grab this function because
I want to be able to pass in the picture upload.
So that's the actual file upload that someone gives in the update user form and then we want to grab
their current username and then save that particular file as a user name that a peg or dot PMG.
OK.
So those are all the imports we need I'm going to collapse this left hand tab there.
Let's save that and then let's begin on the major components here.
First thing I want to do right off the bat is register this as a blueprint.
So will say users is equal to blueprints and we'll register it as users and then pass the built in name
variable.
And since we're doing that we might as well register this over in our in it that PI file.
So we to come over back to this in that pie and over here at the bottom.
We're going to for organizations sake keep all my blueprint registrations here.
So we're going to do is say from puppy company blog dot users views import users because remember that's
the actual that come back to views that's users right here.
That's a blueprint object.
So then we'll just say take the app and register my blueprint of users.
OK.
That way we don't forget to do that.
So we'll come back to use we have that blueprint registered ready to go.
Now we just need to set up our views.
And later on will set up the actual templates that connect to all of these.
So let's start off with some of the simpler ones.
I think the simplest one to start off with is actually the log out you said essentially we don't really
need to do anything special for that.
So for logging out oh we're going to say is we'll see users that routes and we're going to route this
to log out and we'll say the F log.
And then essentially we just call the builtin log out user so that's the logout user function that we
imported from flask log in.
Remember we've used this before in the user authentication authorization section of the course.
And then once the user is locked out let's just redirect them to the home page.
So we're going to say return a redirects and we'll call your all four.
And remember we can't just say index because we're using a blueprint.
So we need to say core that index.
So that means once a user has logged out we will call the function to log out that user and then redirect
them back home.
All right.
So that's probably the simplest view we have.
Now let's focus on some of the more basic or main ones I should say.
Right off the bat we should probably take care of registering a new user since that's pretty fundamental
to setting up our views.
So we'll say that users route and we'll route this to a page called register.
And then since we're going to be using a form here we're going to want to make sure that we set the
methods so we'll say passing a list here of get and post.
And this is essentially going to connect to that registration form.
So we're going to say here is create the register function will create an instance of that registration
form that we created in the last lecture.
And then we'll do our basic check here will say if that form validate on submit.
So once they hit submit if it's valid.
Well we're going to do is create a user object.
So say the user e-mail is equal to form that e-mail that data the username is equal to form the user
name that data and then a password.
Same thing grab the password off of that form what's not passed confirm password.
Actually technically it doesn't matter but probably just grab the first one.
True it's a single equal sign.
And then we've created this user object.
All right.
So if that worked then we have that users new registration of the email the username and the password
and remember the form itself is going to check whether or not that e-mail or that user name has already
been taken.
So once we do that we're going to grab our database grab the section of it and then add in that user
they're going to commit those changes.
So say D-B session commits and then we're going to do is redirect them to the logon page.
So once they've registered they can then say log in.
Now sometimes what people like to do is upon registration they will flash a message saying something
like Thanks for registering so we could do something like this a flash thinks for registration registration.
So if you want you could flash this and then not actually redirect just keep rendering that same registration
page.
But often what you're going to want to do is just return to some sort of logon page so we can say redirect
your all for and then say users log in.
And if you do it this way most likely that's going to happen is this going to flash for like one second
and you're actually going to be fast enough you to catch it before the redirect.
So it's up to you how you want to use this flash versus the redirect.
We'll we'll show them both here that way you can understand where it would actually go for the flash
but what's going to happen is once that person registers and everything's valid it's going to be like
a millisecond flash.
Thanks for registration.
Probably too quick free to catch it.
And then it's going to redirect to the log in page.
Now that's it the form is valid on submissions and noticed my in the station here.
What I want to do is actually have a view for the registration page.
So that means I'm going to need to return render a template and will have register H.T. mail as my template
where the form passed in the form.
So go ahead and save that again.
Pay close attention here to the indentation on our returns.
When we first route someone to the registration page it's going to say return register that time L it's
only upon submitting that form that we get to redirect them to users that log in.
All right.
So since we actually called this register that each team l.
Let's go ahead and fill in that template since it's actually pretty straightforward.
This is one of the simpler templates that we're going to be working with here.
So I've already called that register that it's T.M. which means I will save those changes come back
to my templates and I'm going to create a new file here and call register thought HTL.
OK.
And then I'm going to do a lot of the same stuff as we've done before extend from my base HVM El call
my block and then say content here and essentially all this is going to be just a form to register.
So a form and we actually don't need to worry about class or action that's being take care of us or
taking care for us by flask.
We'll just say that the method is post and sometimes you'll get an error if you don't put it in all
caps that that shouldn't be an issue but just in case I like to always put it in all caps it also makes
it a little more readable for me.
And then we're going to say I'm going to pass in the form hidden tags to make sure we can actually accept
this and then we just need the labels and their actual form components.
So if we think about what form we're passing into the register that H team l remember we come back to
use the form we're passing in here.
So form is equal to form to register that it's him l that's the registration form here.
And if we take a look back at the users forms we're basically passing in an email username password
Pasch confirm.
And the submit button.
So all we need do is pass all of these through the views right here and form on line 26 and then set
them up here and this register that each team out.
So we've set up our hidden tag and then we're going to say here is essentially the following form the
e-mail label and then form the e-mail.
And just so it looks a little nicer and add in a break here.
OK.
So when you do this for every field in that form.
So we have e-mail.
We'll also have username password and past confirm.
And then at the end of this we'll say form submit.
So right now I just copy and paste these.
But let's go ahead and replace these of what we actually want.
We're going to want a user name after the e-mail upon registration.
We're going to want them to provide a password.
So again password here and then we'll also want them to provide a pass confirm.
So say password confirm as well as pass confirm here.
Now keep in mind this is going to be kind of a really simple looking form.
You can always add in your own CSSA calls over here on the form Remember we showed you how to do that.
All you do is open close Princie here and then say class is equal to something.
And often what you want to do is use the bootstrap classes for forms.
So let me just bring in the bootstrap documentation so you can see what I'm talking about.
If you take a look at bootstrap right here remember that if you go to components and then come down
to forms these bootstrap forms look super nice and they have their own classes you can call.
You can set up things like a div form group form control form text text muted and that makes us all
look really nice and good for simplicity.
We're not going to add in that much of these bootstrap classes here for forms.
But I want you to know that it's definitely an option for you to make your forms and pages look really
nice with bootstrap.
For now we're just keeping it simple essentially doing what we've done before passing everything here
as a normal flask form.
OK.
So that's a registration page ready to go.
So we have our views right here for registration.
Perfect.
Nelse move on to the log in view very similar thing we're going to do here.
We'll say users not route.
And then this will go to a page called logon.
Same thing here repassing in a form.
So will say methods is equal to gets.
And then also post ups and then we'll say the F log in we're going to create an instance of the form.
In this case it's going to be the log and form that we created in the last lecture.
And very similar We're going to say if the form validate on submit then what we're going to do is remember
they're logging in so they already exist.
Which basically means instead of creating a user like I did up here here I created a user upon registration
added them in.
Now that I'm logging in I just want to query that user that already exist.
So I'll say user is equal to user and I'm going to ask for a query and then filter by where email is
equal to form the e-mail that data because upon logging and they provide an email address so I get a
filter by that e-mail I remember upon registration we wanted to make sure every email is unique which
is why I can just filter by a single e-mail and then I'm going to grab the first user that shows up.
There should only be one user but the reason I call first here is just so I get it in the right format
instead of getting a list or an array of results.
OK.
So there's my user they just logged in.
Now what I want to do is make sure that they provided the correct password.
So if the user exists I'm going to say is falling.
I'll say if user dot check password and then we'll call form the password data.
So assuming they provided the correct password remember the user has that versus a security check.
And I'll say an user is not.
None that I'm ready to log in the user.
And luckily flask log in can do all of this heavy lifting for us.
All we need to say is say logging user and then just pass in the user object.
And then we can flash something like log in success.
Now often a user is going to be wanting to search for something and then they're prompted to log in.
So what you can do is create this next object as we've previously discussed.
So if a user was trying to visit a page that required a log in what happens is we can say request args
gets next.
And what this does is it basically from that current session it grabs the information of what the user
was actually trying to access.
So then we'll do the following will say if next is equal to one or not next 0 equal to 4 slash.
It's home page we'll say that next is equal to your L4 core index.
And then we're just going to redirect them will say return redirect to next and then here will say return
render template log in.
H tim L and then passen that form OK.
Let's quickly review what we actually just did here.
In this view file.
So here we're routing them to log in.
We create that log in a form if the form is valid on submission.
Then we grab that user by their e-mail address.
We check to make sure they provided the correct password and that the user actually exists.
Then we log in the user happens to be true.
And then this next line line 44 here.
All that says is hey it was easier trying to reach in other web page that had a required log in.
If so go ahead and grab that.
Now this case if next was done they actually just went straight to the logon page or if next wasn't
equal to the home page.
Go ahead and just set next equal to the home page and then redirect them to next.
Which means basically they're either going to go back to the home page or go to the web page that they're
actually trying to view.
And then this return render template.
Well that's actually just a return for this entire logon.
So let me make sure that I actually have my in the station correct there.
That's really important to get it right.
So I want that one more space back here.
One more step back so that it's actually the return for this logon.
So keep special mind here of the indentation for this return versus this return this return of the redirect
you want to make sure that's connected to right here.
This underneath this if statement this return for the rather template you want to make sure that's connected
to this log in the form.
And now that that's done let's go ahead and very quickly create that log in the HTL template.
So we'll open this up go back to templates create a new file call it in.
H tim L and it's going to look really really similar to the register that each T.M. so similar in fact
that I can actually copy from register at each time L and then pass it in here to logon and it's going
to have a hidden tag.
Then I have an e-mail but there's actually no user name provided here.
And there's no Pask confirm here.
Basically it's just logging in with your e-mail and your password and that's it.
OK.
So that's what the log in him looks like.
And remember back in our views we're passing in this form object to log in each T.M..
All right.
So we've set up the registration and log interviews for our users.
Up next we're going to have to do is finish this off by setting up their account view as well as a user's
list of blog posts.
We'll continue that discussion in the very next lecture.